we're using biological models to come up
with ways to improve our underwater
vehicles
and that's useful because the ones we
have now aren't actually very good
at the kind of jobs we need them to do
for science and research
most of the underwater vehicles we have
are either torpedoes
that go straight in a line and they're
not very good at doing any kind of
sensitive work
or they're big clunky remotely operated
vehicles that are
really expensive whereas the stuff that
we're doing
is inexpensive and maneuverable and can
easily do the jobs that we need to get
done
and it looks like a dinosaur i wanted to
call it nessie because
the dinosaur we're looking at is the
plesiosaur
which has got to be what the loch ness
monster was
kind of based on it's the one with four
flippers and the long neck
but yeah so we're taking some previous
research that was done
by a phd student newly minted dr luke
muscat
and he worked on showing that flapping
foils if you time them right
and you put them one in front of the
other in tandem that you get really high
efficiencies and thrusts out of that
back foil
because it's operating in the jet of the
front foil
so luke did measurements and you can get
sixty percent
more thrust out of the back foils and
forty percent higher efficiency
so in games where we're trying to tweak
the efficiency of a propeller up from
seventy two to seventy four percent
uh going from seventy percent to eighty
percent is just
huge